Stark Ramsey experiment (#1008)
Qiskit/qiskit-experiments: docs/manuals/characterization/stark_experiment.rst

AC Stark Effect
===============

When a qubit is driven with an off-resonant tone,
the qubit frequency :math:`f_0` is slightly shifted through what is known as the (AC) Stark effect.
This technique is sometime used to characterize qubit properties in the vicinity of
the base frequency, especially with the fixed frequency qubit architecture which usually
doesn't have a knob to control frequency [1]_.

The important control parameters of the Stark effect are the amplitude
:math:`\Omega` and frequency :math:`f_S` of
the off-resonant tone, which we will call *Stark tone* in the following.
In the low power limit, the amount of frequency shift :math:`\delta f_S`
that the qubit may experience is described as follows [2]_:

.. math::

>     \delta f_S \propto \frac{\alpha}{2\Delta\left(\alpha - \Delta\right)} \Omega^2,

Author: This comes from the appendix of effective CR paper https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.04073.pdf. Empirically the shift is quadratic function of drive, but the fit model also uses cubit term to cover some nonlinear case. Probably `\sim` is better?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39517270/233801502-d42992f6-d75f-4dc6-bd27-28e79cdd3dee.png)

>     \delta f_S \propto \frac{\alpha}{2\Delta\left(\alpha - \Delta\right)} \Omega^2,

Reviewer: Okay, hmm, using `sim` (or `\approx`?) seems okay then. In the tutorial, we are mostly focused on the single qubit case and the corrections to the expression of proportional to `J`, so you could take `J=0` if you wanted. In your first reference they only include the first term:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1178780/233813664-9536a5d0-6969-467e-815f-b4331810254a.png)

>     \delta f_S \propto \frac{\alpha}{2\Delta\left(\alpha - \Delta\right)} \Omega^2,

Author: Okey, it's replaced with `\approx`

where :math:`\alpha` is the qubit anharmonicity and :math:`\Delta=f_S - f_0` is the
frequency separation of the Stark tone from the qubit frequency :math:`f_0`.

> We sometime call this *Stark shift*.

Author: I didn't notice this page. Seems like a good reference. This is added as ref3.

In Qiskit Experiments, the Stark experiments usually have an experiment option ``stark_channel``
to specify this.
By default, the Stark tone is applied to the same channel as the qubit drive
with a frequency shift. This frequency shift might update the channel frame,
which accumulates unwanted phase against the frequency difference between
the qubit drive :math:`f_0` and Stark tone frequencies :math:`f_S` in addition to
the qubit Stark shfit :math:`\delta f_s`.
You can use a dedicated Stark drive channel if available.
Otherwise, you may want to use a control channel associated with the physical
drive port of the qubit.

In a typical IBM device using the cross-resonance drive architecture,
such channel can be identified with your backend as follows:

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import FakeHanoiV2

    backend = FakeHanoiV2()
    qubit = 0

    for qpair in backend.coupling_map:
        if qpair[0] == qubit:
            break

    print(backend.control_channel(qpair)[0])

This returns a control channel for which the qubit is the control qubit.
This approach may not work for other device architectures.

> Characterizing Frequency Shift

Reviewer: For consistency with the other section titles:

```suggestion
Characterizing the frequency shift
```

------------------------------

One can experimentally measure :math:`\delta f_S` with the :class:`.StarkRamseyXY` experiment.

> Following pulse sequence illustrates how :math:`\delta f_S` is characterized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following pulse sequence illustrates how :math:`\delta f_S` is characterized
```

by a variant of the Hahn-echo pulse sequence [5]_.

> .. jupyter-execute::

Reviewer: Hmmm, this is better than it saying "NO THUMB NAIL" but I wonder why it is picking up the qiskit logo and not the image generated by this code block? @coruscating any idea?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1178780/234954633-3dc0caab-123a-407f-b8a4-eceb35694263.png)

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39517270/235761503-c066de1c-f886-46f9-b24b-7ae84be910ab.png)

Updated. I needed to specify the figure name in the configuration file.
https://nbsphinx.readthedocs.io/en/0.7.1/gallery/thumbnail-from-conf-py.html

        stark_channel=pulse.ControlChannel(0),
    )

    circ = exp.circuits()[0]
    ram_x_schedule = schedule(circ, backend=backend)

    opt = {
        "formatter.general.fig_chart_height": 10,
        "formatter.margin.top": 0.1,
        "formatter.margin.bottom": 0.2,
        "formatter.label_offset.pulse_name": 0.1,
        "formatter.text_size.annotate": 14,
    }
    ram_x_schedule.draw(time_range=(0, 1600), style=IQXSimple(**opt), backend=backend)

The qubit is initialized in the :math:`Y`-eigenstate with the first half-pi pulse.
This state may be visualized by a Bloch vector located on the equator of the Bloch sphere,
which is highly sensitive to Z rotation arising from any qubit frequency offset.
This operation is followed by a pi-pulse and another negative half-pi pulse
right before the measurement tone filled in red.
This sequence recovers the initial state when Z rotation is zero or :math:`\delta f_S=0`.

As you may notice, this sequence is interleaved with two pulses labeled
"StarkV" (Gaussian) and "StarkU" (GaussianSquare) filled in yellow, representing Stark tones.
These pulses are designed to have the same maximum amplitude :math:`\Omega` resulting

> in the same :math:`\delta f_S` at this amplitude -- but why we need two pulses?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the same :math:`\delta f_S` at this amplitude -- but why do we need two pulses?
```

> Since :math:`\delta f_S` is amplitude dependent, Stark tones cause time-dependent
> frequency shift at pulse ramps. With a single Stark tone, you are only able to estimate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since :math:`\delta f_S` is amplitude dependent, the Stark pulses cause time-dependent
frequency shifts during the pulse ramps. With a single Stark tone, you are only able to estimate
```

the average :math:`\delta f_S` over the history of amplitudes :math:`\Omega(t)`,
even though you may want to characterize :math:`\delta f_S` at a particular :math:`\Omega`.
You have to remember that you cannot use a square envelope to set a uniform amplitude,

> because such pulse is known to have broad frequency component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because the sharp rise and fall of the pulse amplitude has a broad frequency spectrum
which could produce unwanted excitations.
```

> The pulse sequence shown in above is adopted to address such issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pulse sequence shown above is adopted to address such issue.
```

The Z rotation accumulated by the first pulse is proportional to :math:`\int \Omega_V^2(t) dt`,
while that of the second pulse is :math:`-\int \Omega_U^2(t) dt` because

> the qubit state to prove this rotation is flipped by the pi-pulse in the middle.

Reviewer: Trying to clarify this a little more:

```suggestion
the qubit state is flipped by the pi-pulse in the middle, flipping the sense of rotation of the state even though the actual rotation direction is the same for both pulses.
```

> The only difference of the :math:`\Omega_U(t)` from the :math:`\Omega_V(t)` is the flat-top part
> with a constant amplitude :math:`\Omega`, where :math:`\delta f_S` is also constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only difference between :math:`\Omega_U(t)` and :math:`\Omega_V(t)` is the flat-top part
with constant amplitude :math:`\Omega`, where :math:`\delta f_S` is also constant.
```

> Thanks to this sign flip, the net Z rotation accumulated through two tones is
> only proportional to the flat-top part of the StarkU pulse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to this sign flip, the net Z rotation accumulated through the two pulses is
proportional to only the flat-top part of the StarkU pulse.
```
